The Joe Rogan experience.
You're though the whole rap world has always been fascinating to me.
Like how someone gets in,
like,
how do you get started?
Are there open mics?
Like what?
[inaudible] back in the day,
man,
that someone had to be the guy endorsing you.
You know,
like saying to,
you know these guys over here,
Amen.
Listen to this,
these artists,
right?
Or this artist's right here,
they're the new shit.
They're going to be the one and then you would have to do a couple showcases and
stuff like that.
And you know,
when some people over,
I mean we,
we definitely did a,
our sheriff showcases in the beginning,
but we were getting passed on left and right because,
you know,
people thought,
what are they talking about with this cannabis shit?
And we,
and we didn't sound like a west coast group,
you know,
because we're trying to sell our shit to west coast labels here.
And they did not get us.
It wasn't until,
you know,
um,
mugs had had,
you know,
he'd previously been in a group called [inaudible] 73 and he had worked with
these guys called the rhyme syndicate,
which was ice teas guy.
So he kind of,
you know,
he was the guy that people knew and then,
um,
send dogs,
brother and mellow man,
ace eventually would get in the door.
And so people started hearing about us through,
you know,
through more mugs than mellow metal.
Mellow didn't really do shit for us,
you know,
all,
all truth told.
But mugs,
you know,
they kept hearing about a group that he was forming outside of 73,
which came to be Cypress Hill.
And so,
you know,
the guys that worked on him worked with him on the 73 records,
which was Joe's Niccolo of,
of rough house records,
you know,
he wanted to sign whatever Muggs was doing and you know,
he eventually ended up signing us,
um,
and they had a distribution deal with,
uh,
with Sony music.
So,
you know,
we,
put out our records of rough house Columbia or roughhouse,
Sony,
something like that.
And that's how we got put on,
you know,
and,
and again,
it had to be word of mouth because if nobody heard you heard of you,
you have to have some really fucking dope music for them to even like consider
you if you didn't have like someone back in you.
It was tough.
You know,
you had to have someone come speak on your behalf and say hey these guys are the
new new shit.
And,
and uh,
fortunately for us,
once we put out our snippet tape,
like when Sony put out our snippet tape,
guys like EPMD right.
And they were one of our favorite groups in the world,
man,
it will the top five for Cypress willows,
you know,
public enemy,
Beastie boys EPMD fuck.
They were the shit.
And uh,
those were the guys that took our snippet tape and they were showing our snippet
tape to other rappers.
Like,
hey guys,
look at these new fucking guys.
Cause you know,
Busta rhyme told me this story,
you'll have yo son are just shift from EPMD way back in the day.
They was planning for a public enemy and I just happened to be in the boom in Wa
and you know,
ice cube when we met him for the first time,
you know,
um,
and we had our ups and downs with him,
but he's one of my homeys.
Um,
he,
he told me,
yeah man,
the first time I heard of y'all was through epmt that we was on tour was doing
this show and they came in,
which I'll tape and that's how I heard of y'all.
And,
and you know that they were like our first street team man,
fucking EPMD our faith,
our favorite one of our top three favorite groups was out there,
like with our snippet tape telling people,
hey,
these guys are the new shit.
And uh,
they do,
they do stuff occasionally,
but I think they do more work,
you know,
individually.
Now I know Eric sermon is putting out a record right now.
He was just promoting it on,
on some radio show.
And,
uh,
I mean those guys still act,
stay active.
I mean he's a producer so he's always making music.
But as a rapper they'll,
they don't put out as much stuff as they used to.
But yeah,
they're still active.
You know who I Miss Kool g rap,
Kool g rap ever.
I still bust out a,
a lot of guys don't have a style if he doesn't,
you know,
if he had never come out of so many people were influenced by him,
bad motherfuckers.
A lot of people forgot about him.
Lot of people forgot about him.
And he was one of the baddest dudes I've been in.
A lot of people you know would talk about Big Daddy Kane and Rakim Chore,
but You couldn't talk about them without talking about Kool g rap cause he was
like one of those guys like spitting mad versus man,
like his bar work was incredible.
He was incredible.
I still listen to that song.
Cock blocking.
Yeah.
Every now and then I'll throw that on and I got to tell you,
you know,
like if you hear songs that he does today,
he is still fucking current.
Like his,
he's still got that style that that cuts through.
Like,
you know,
some of the older artists date,
they sort of lose the style that people love and they don't know how to
transition into,
you know,
what their style would be right now.
You know,
like updating whatever that style is.
a lot of,
a lot of the older artists had troubles doing that,
you know,
but my man,
Kool g rap,
not a fucking street blues.
Phil,
he's still ill.
He was a fantastic,
yeah.
Yeah.
I always got confused why he didn't get bigger.
I didn't get it.
I was like,
he's got so good.
You know,
I think it was,
it was just the wave that came after him.
You know,
it's,
it's like,
uh,
he was such an underground force in,
if you're underground force,
you know,
you had to make a conscious decision whether,
okay,
I'm going to go main.
If I go mainstream,
I'm going to lose these hardcore fans.
I might gain,
you know,
these mainstream fans.
But how long are they gonna stay with me as opposed to these core fans that,
you know,
that,
that they're put with his style.
He couldn't just keep them cause like I thought he could,
a lot of guys kept him.
Brian,
you want to know something?
I think it was due to,
um,
you know,
the record company not wanting to take the chance because as an artist,
you want everybody to hear your shit.
Right.
You know,
for us,
we didn't play those games.
We said fuck it.
And you know,
if,
if we felt it was the right look for us,
we were going to take it,
you know,
no matter what anybody thought and you know,
and uh,
uh,
again,
you faced scrutiny for Shit like that.
But in the end,
you know,
if you didn't play yourself,
people remember that,
you know,
and we said,
fuck it.
We're gonna take our music mainstream.
Even though that was not our intent.
You know,
we always meant ourselves to be a more underground group but insane in the
brain.
Didn't allow that.
It,
it,
it propelled us,
you know,
so we were like,
okay,
well we're going to take our underground NASA's up into this mainstream and show
them how we do it and it,
it kicked the door open for a lot of an other underground next to go into the
mainstream and we prove that if you do it right and if you stay on your game and
if you keep working in,
in and stay present and put out quality music that you can sustain those,
those mainstream fans that you gain right there and the core.
Yeah.
You guys sustain so well that people covered your shit.
Yeah,
like rage.
That was awesome.
Machine when they covered pistol grip pump on my left at all times.
Holy Shit.
One of my favorite bands.
Still a roach.
A yell on that.
Yeah.
That,
that shit was awesome.
I mean he took a totally different take on it but like a cover.
But it was a cover but it was his take.
Yeah,
it was bad ass.
It was one of my favorites,
man.
You know,
and it was an honor to me because you know,
like I was really good friends with them to begin with.
I saw them come out the gate before they exploded and became rage against the
machine and so for them to cover one of our songs were like,
man,
fuck yeah.
You know,
because they,
they helped us get better.
You know,
there was a lot of groups that we look to for influence,
even if they were doing different style of music,
like public enemy wasn't influenced to us.
Rage against the machine was an inspiration to us to like push the envelope a
little bit more on what we were doing.
Not necessarily like how they were because they had their own sound just like we
had our own sound and so they made us push,
you know,
in groups like that made us better.
So when we heard this guy fucking doing or this band doing the cover and then
they asked us to come play this song,
which,
which would be their last night as rage against the machine for a long time.
This was like their last show right here.
Wow.
We got to do that with them.
That must have been amazing.
And I was wearing a dad hat before.
Dad hats were cool.
I will not wear one right now.
I know what I was thinking for.
Fuck it.
That's Alaris as hilarious.
Okay.